.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

---
name: Pull Request
about: Propose a change to the project.
---

### Description

<!--
Please include a summary of the change and which issue is fixed.
Please also include relevant motivation and context.
List any dependencies that are required for this change.
-->

Fixes # (issue)

### Type of change

- [ ] Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
- [ ] New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
- [ ] Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing functionality to not work as expected)
- [ ] This change requires a documentation update

### How Has This Been Tested?

<!--
Please describe the tests that you ran to verify your changes.
Provide instructions so we can reproduce.
Please also list any relevant details for your test configuration.
-->

- [ ] Test A
- [ ] Test B

### Checklist

- [ ] My code follows the style guidelines of this project
- [ ] I have performed a self-review of my own code
- [ ] I have commented my code, particularly in hard-to-understand areas
- [ ] I have made corresponding changes to the documentation
- [ ] My changes generate no new warnings
- [ ] I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my feature works
- [ ] New and existing unit tests pass locally with my changes
- [ ] Any dependent changes have been merged and published in downstream modules

Commit message:

docs: Enhance documentation with man page, config guide, and integrations (#67)

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

## Description

<!--
Please include a summary of the change and which issue is fixed.
If this PR adds a new Kata, please describe the check briefly.
-->

Fixes # (issue)

## Type of change

- [ ] `feat`: New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
- [ ] `fix`: Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
- [ ] `docs`: Documentation update
- [ ] `chore`: Maintenance (deps, build, etc.)
- [ ] `refactor`: Code restructuring
- [ ] `test`: Adding missing tests

## Checklist

- [ ] I have read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) guide.
- [ ] I have read the [DEVELOPMENT.md](DEVELOPMENT.md) guide.
- [ ] **Linting**: My code passes `go fmt` and `go vet`.
- [ ] **Tests**: I have added tests for my changes (especially for new Katas).
- [ ] **Integration**: I have run `./tests/integration_test.zsh` and it passes.
- [ ] **Documentation**: I have updated relevant documentation (if applicable).

## For New Katas (If Applicable)

- [ ] Added `pkg/katas/zcXXXX.go`
- [ ] Registered in `pkg/katas/katas.go`
- [ ] Added tests in `pkg/katas/katatests/zcXXXX_test.go`
- [ ] Verified that the ID (`ZCXXXX`) is unique and sequential.
